CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# How to contribute


## Testing

Please write unit tests for all new code you create. You can see how we do tests in `/test/`

## Submitting changes

Please send a Merge Request for your changes. Please follow our coding conventions (below) and make sure all of your commits are atomic (one functional unit per commit).

Always write a clear descriptive log message for each of your commits. For example:

```
    $ git commit -m "A brief summary of the commit
    > 
    > A paragraph describing what changed and its impact."
```

Example of commit messages we will not approve:
```
    $ git commit -m "new version"
```

```
    $ git commit -m "41"
```

```
    $ git commit -m "bump"
```

Feel free to use GitMojis (https://gitmoji.carloscuesta.me/)

## Code style guide and design decisions

- `core` is a base part of our appliation, similar to `libs` in other projects, server for the core data platform functionality, should be usable by another project (different city, different datasets, different use-cases) and SHOULD NOT depend on anything project-specific (anything outside `core`)
- `resources` are our project-specific resources (datasets) that we use
- we use Async/Await for asynchronous stuff (try to avoid callbacks or Promises)
- we use OOP, try to design your changes with this in mind - use Classes, Interfaces, inheritence so that it makes sense
- we use TypeScript for a reason - try to avoid using :any or not defining types at all
- study our class hierarchy and make your additions fit it
- name variables and properties by their purpose
- name functions and methods by their purpose, not their implementation
- we use ES6 and its features, array destructing, spread, rest,...

## Coding conventions

Start reading our code and you'll get the hang of it. We optimize for readability:

  * We use TSLint with slightly edited `recommended` settings, see our `tslint.json` file
  * We use TypeDoc for code documentation. Document all your classes with JavaDoc-styled comments
  * We always put spaces after list items and method parameters (`[1, 2, 3]`, not `[1,2,3]`), around operators (`x += 1`, not `x+=1`), and in curly brackets (`import { log } from "../../core/Logger";` not `import {log} from "../../core/Logger";`).
  * This is open source software. Consider the people who will read your code, and make it look nice for them.

Commit message:

added branch naming convention to contrib guidelines

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# How to contribute


## Testing

Please write unit tests for all new code you create. You can see how we do tests in `/test/`

## Submitting changes

Please send a Merge Request for your changes. Please follow our coding conventions (below) and make sure all of your commits are atomic (one functional unit per commit).

Always write a clear descriptive log message for each of your commits. For example:

```
    $ git commit -m "A brief summary of the commit
    > 
    > A paragraph describing what changed and its impact."
```

Example of commit messages we will not approve:
```
    $ git commit -m "new version"
```

```
    $ git commit -m "41"
```

```
    $ git commit -m "bump"
```

Feel free to use GitMojis (https://gitmoji.carloscuesta.me/)

Name your single issue branches aimed for MR as `<issue-number>-issue-description` so the issue will get linked to that branch. Same as mentioning issue number (with `#`) in commit message (example `$ git commit -m "A brief summary of the commit related to #34`).

## Code style guide and design decisions

- `core` is a base part of our appliation, similar to `libs` in other projects, server for the core data platform functionality, should be usable by another project (different city, different datasets, different use-cases) and SHOULD NOT depend on anything project-specific (anything outside `core`)
- `resources` are our project-specific resources (datasets) that we use
- we use Async/Await for asynchronous stuff (try to avoid callbacks or Promises)
- we use OOP, try to design your changes with this in mind - use Classes, Interfaces, inheritence so that it makes sense
- we use TypeScript for a reason - try to avoid using :any or not defining types at all
- study our class hierarchy and make your additions fit it
- name variables and properties by their purpose
- name functions and methods by their purpose, not their implementation
- we use ES6 and its features, array destructing, spread, rest,...

## Coding conventions

Start reading our code and you'll get the hang of it. We optimize for readability:

  * We use TSLint with slightly edited `recommended` settings, see our `tslint.json` file
  * We use TypeDoc for code documentation. Document all your classes with JavaDoc-styled comments
  * We always put spaces after list items and method parameters (`[1, 2, 3]`, not `[1,2,3]`), around operators (`x += 1`, not `x+=1`), and in curly brackets (`import { log } from "../../core/Logger";` not `import {log} from "../../core/Logger";`).
  * This is open source software. Consider the people who will read your code, and make it look nice for them.
