README.md, before:

[![pipeline status](http://gitlab.oict.cz/data-platform/output-gateway/badges/master/pipeline.svg)](http://gitlab.oict.cz/data-platform/output-gateway/commits/master)
[![coverage report](http://gitlab.oict.cz/data-platform/output-gateway/badges/master/coverage.svg)](http://gitlab.oict.cz/data-platform/output-gateway/commits/master)


# Data Platform Output Gateway

Output Gateway for the Data Platform System. Provides REST API for the data stored in Golemio data platform. 

Uses express server, caching using Redis.

More in Apiary documentation at https://outputgateway.docs.apiary.io

Developed by http://operatorict.cz


## Docker instalation
### Prerequisites
- Docker Engine
- Mongo
- Postgres

### Instalation & run
1. Build docker image by `docker build -t output-gateway .`
2. Setup ENV variables by `.env` file or add `-e VAR=VALUE` to docker run. Env variables are described in `.env.template`.
3. Run container by

```
docker run --rm \
    -p 3004:3004 \ # expose port 3004
    -e PORT=3004 \
    -e MONGO_CONN: mongodb://user:pass@mongo.dp_database:27017/dataplatform?authSource=admin \
    -e POSTGRES_CONN: postgres://user:pass@postgres.dp_database/dataplatform \
    output-gateway # docker image label (defined by step 1)
```

## Local Installation

### Prerequisites

- node.js
- mongoDB
- Postgres
- yarn
- typescript

### Installation

Install all prerequisites

Install all dependencies using command:
```
yarn install
```

from the application's root directory.

### Compilation of typescript code

To compile typescript code into js one-time

```
npm run build
```
or run this to watch all changes and automatically re-build on save:
```
npm run build-watch
```
from the application's root directory.

### Run

```
npm start
```
This will load all config variables from environment variables or the .env file. To run, set all environment variables from the `.env.template` file, or copy the `.env.template` file into new `.env` file in root directory and set variables there. Env variables are described in `.env.template`.

Project uses `dotenv` package: https://www.npmjs.com/package/dotenv

Application is now running locally on port 3004 or on port specified in the environment variable.

## Tests

To run all test defined in /test directory simply run this command:
```
npm test
```
from the application's root directory. All tests should pass with the correct data. Test data are in the `test/data` directory. You can import them using the `mongorestore -d $MONGO_DB_NAME ./test/data/dataplatform` command. More: https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/program/mongorestore/

You can also test the API against the Apiary documentation using `dredd` (https://dredd.org). To run the tests, make sure the app will be run on port 3004 (setting ENV variable or leaving the default) and run
```
dredd
```
from the application's root directory.

## Logging

Logging uses `Winston` for standard logging with levels, `morgan` for http access logs and `debug` (https://www.npmjs.com/package/debug) for debugging.

All logs with `silly` and `debug` level are printed as standard log (if appropriate log level is set) using Winston as well as using `debug` module with `"data-platform:output-gateway"` settings.

You can set both `LOG_LEVEL` and `DEBUG` settings in ENV variables.

## Documentation

For generating documentation run `npm run generate-docs`. Typedoc source code documentation is located in `docs/typedoc`.

More documentation in `docs/`. Mainly `new_dataset_integration.md` for description on how to add a new dataset and create new API routes.

### API documentation

Rest API documentation is placed in `docs/apiary_docs.apib` which is also up-to-date on [outputgateway.docs.apiary.io](https://outputgateway.docs.apiary.io/#) (master), [outputgatewaydev.docs.apiary.io](https://outputgatewaydev.docs.apiary.io/#) (development).

## Contribution guidelines

Please read `CONTRIBUTING.md`.

## Troubleshooting

Contact benak@operatorict.cz or vycpalek@operatorict.cz

Commit message:

added importing example data to readme, moved data to /db

README.md, after:

[![pipeline status](http://gitlab.oict.cz/data-platform/output-gateway/badges/master/pipeline.svg)](http://gitlab.oict.cz/data-platform/output-gateway/commits/master)
[![coverage report](http://gitlab.oict.cz/data-platform/output-gateway/badges/master/coverage.svg)](http://gitlab.oict.cz/data-platform/output-gateway/commits/master)


# Data Platform Output Gateway

Output Gateway for the Data Platform System. Provides REST API for the data stored in Golemio data platform. 

Uses express server, caching using Redis.

More in Apiary documentation at https://outputgateway.docs.apiary.io

Developed by http://operatorict.cz


## Docker instalation
### Prerequisites
- Docker Engine
- Mongo
- Postgres

### Instalation & run
1. Build docker image by `docker build -t output-gateway .`
2. Setup ENV variables by `.env` file or add `-e VAR=VALUE` to docker run. Env variables are described in `.env.template`.
3. Run container by

```
docker run --rm \
    -p 3004:3004 \ # expose port 3004
    -e PORT=3004 \
    -e MONGO_CONN: mongodb://user:pass@mongo.dp_database:27017/dataplatform?authSource=admin \
    -e POSTGRES_CONN: postgres://user:pass@postgres.dp_database/dataplatform \
    output-gateway # docker image label (defined by step 1)
```

## Local Installation

### Prerequisites

- node.js
- mongoDB
- Postgres
- yarn
- typescript

### Installation

Install all prerequisites

Install all dependencies using command:
```
yarn install
```

from the application's root directory.

### Compilation of typescript code

To compile typescript code into js one-time

```
npm run build
```
or run this to watch all changes and automatically re-build on save:
```
npm run build-watch
```
from the application's root directory.

### Run

```
npm start
```
This will load all config variables from environment variables or the .env file. To run, set all environment variables from the `.env.template` file, or copy the `.env.template` file into new `.env` file in root directory and set variables there. Env variables are described in `.env.template`.

Project uses `dotenv` package: https://www.npmjs.com/package/dotenv

Application is now running locally on port 3004 or on port specified in the environment variable.

### Importing example data

Example data are stored in `db/example/`.

For importing example data run `mongorestore -d $MONGO_DB_NAME ./db/example/mongo_data/dataplatform` and `psql -h $POSTGRES_HOST -U $POSTGRES_USER -d $POSTGRES_DB -f db/example/sql_dump.sql`. 

## Tests

To run all test defined in /test directory simply run this command:
```
npm test
```
from the application's root directory. All tests should pass with the correct data. Test data are in the `db/example` directory. You can import them using the `mongorestore -d $MONGO_DB_NAME ./db/example/mongo_data/dataplatform` command. More: https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/program/mongorestore/

You can also test the API against the Apiary documentation using `dredd` (https://dredd.org). To run the tests, make sure the app will be run on port 3004 (setting ENV variable or leaving the default) and run
```
dredd
```
from the application's root directory.

## Logging

Logging uses `Winston` for standard logging with levels, `morgan` for http access logs and `debug` (https://www.npmjs.com/package/debug) for debugging.

All logs with `silly` and `debug` level are printed as standard log (if appropriate log level is set) using Winston as well as using `debug` module with `"data-platform:output-gateway"` settings.

You can set both `LOG_LEVEL` and `DEBUG` settings in ENV variables.

## Documentation

For generating documentation run `npm run generate-docs`. Typedoc source code documentation is located in `docs/typedoc`.

More documentation in `docs/`. Mainly `new_dataset_integration.md` for description on how to add a new dataset and create new API routes.

### API documentation

Rest API documentation is placed in `docs/apiary_docs.apib` which is also up-to-date on [outputgateway.docs.apiary.io](https://outputgateway.docs.apiary.io/#) (master), [outputgatewaydev.docs.apiary.io](https://outputgatewaydev.docs.apiary.io/#) (development).

## Contribution guidelines

Please read `CONTRIBUTING.md`.

## Troubleshooting

Contact benak@operatorict.cz or vycpalek@operatorict.cz
